Hey welcome back.
This is our last video on generators for now and we're going to talk about a topic called generator
expressions.
So these are basically what list comprehensions are two lists.
But for generators the goal is just a nice simple or easy syntax to create generators on a single line.
Just like with list comprehensions there's nothing that you can only do with this comp.
It's just a nice way of writing something else that might take a couple of lines.
So we can create generators from generator expressions that look like list comprehensions.
And most importantly how they so far we use parens instead of list brackets.
Suppose I had a really simple generator like let's call it Nom's.
And all of that it does is for in range.
Let's go one to 10.
It's just going to yield.
No I'll copy it over to my shell here.
Then I could just do g equals numbers like that.
And then we call next on G and so on.
And that should all be review.
OK.
So there's a shortcut if you want to do it on a single line.
You can just do this.
G equals Perrins.
And then we're just too numb.
For now I'm in range.
Comma 10.
And if you look at what she is it's a generator object which is the same thing as this old version of
G I should have shown that to you first.
If I remake it though I you look at G.
It's a generator object.
But here it tells us it came from a generator expression.
Here it tells us how it was defined with the generator function names.
All right.
So otherwise they're identical if I call.
Next on this one we get the same thing.
I really shouldn't have gone with G.
So let's change this too.
I don't know.
G-2 these are terrible names.
If I do next on to keep going.
It's the same thing.
All right.
And then eventually at the end and we get the stop iteration error.
Cool.
So that is our first generator expression.
If we had replaced it with list brackets if I had done I don't know let's just do all equals and then
no.
For now I'm in range 1 common 10.
But now we get all the data in one list all at once.
So that shouldn't be news either.
That's how this comprehension works.
But when we use a generator we get one thing at a time.
It gives us a generator object and then we iterate over it by calling next whether we're using a loop
or we're calling next manually on our own.
We get one item at a time but we can take advantage of this for things like that.
I showed you when we had some phone some all of these numbers together.
There's no reason that I necessarily have to put them in a list.
So if I copy this I could do that and I get 45 or I could do this.
And I also should get 45.
But in this case I'm using a generator expression and passing that.
And in this case I'm using a list comprehension which is giving me a big list that's on the 10 things
on.
But it's giving me a list and passing it.
So there is a difference.
OK.
So let me show you the actual difference on calling some with a generator expression versus a list comprehension.
And with let's say we're summing the first million or 10 million numbers together in order to time things
I'm going to import time.
This is not a very precise way of timing.
By the way there are things you can download modules out there that actually are more precise for benchmarking
but this will give us a good enough guess an approximation.
So I'm going to have a variable called Gen start time for generator equals Time.com times they'll be
typed basically.
Now whenever I run the script and then I'm going to try doing print let's do some.
And we're not using a list comprehension so it's just going to be.
And for an in range.
And what is this year.
That's a million.
Let's do 10 million like that had on my last parentheses there and then let's do a variable down here
called Jeon stop equals time time.
So that's now minus gen start time.
So it makes sense we're capturing the start time we're doing the thing and then afterwards we're taking
the current time subtracting the start time.
OK then we're going to do the exact same thing except I'm going to call all of these variables.
List start time lists stop and we'll add in a list comprehension there.
So now we're turning it into a list first and then summing all those things together.
OK.
Lastly let's do a print f string and do we want to put this whole thing in there.
Sure.
Let's take this took colon and then we'll do.
Jan stop taking good stop is not the right word for that.
That's just Jugend time and this time.
Duplicate this except this time the list brackets there took list.
Stop.
OK.
So we're running the exact same code except one repassing and I was comped the other one is a generator
expression and then retiming both of them.
And then at the end printing and I did change this to be GEND time.
And then this time instead of stop ok let's make sure I don't have any errors.
Try running it.
Fingers crossed.
OK.
So it prints both of them out and then we can see the difference over here.
It looks pretty small when we're doing 10 million but you can see that generator was faster although
we're not necessarily comfortable with that margin because time is somewhat imprecise but do an extra
S.R.O.
How about now.
Might take a moment and might fast forward.
I can't fill this time.
Am I supposed to talk about boy crippling fear here.
I don't know what to talk about.
Well it's raining here.
All right.
There you go.
That is a big difference.
Look at that six point seventy five seconds using a generator expression 10 seconds using a list comprehension.
Massive difference.
And of course the reason for that is that here when we're using some it makes the entire list first
and then it has to go over the entire list and add everything together.
So it makes it first and then that's it and it has what is this 10 million 100 million.
Yeah 10 million digits.
That's a very long list.
Versus here.
We're not creating the entire list.
We're just taking one thing at a time and adding it to a sum.
And we just go one ad one ad until we hit the end of the generator and then we have the total.
So very very different approach and a significant reduction in time as you can see.
All right so that's generator expressions if you can use them they often can save some time.